[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: Let's get into
a discussion of scope enclosures.
Here first, what you need to know
defini Scope, where to look for things.
Now, you should rightly ask yourself
a question on that first slide.
What are we looking for?
Well, what we're looking for are gonna
be the variables that we reference.
Anytime you reference a variable, like
my object, and use an identifier name,
somebody needs to go, and do a lookup
to find out where is that variable?
Where does he exist?
Where was he declared?
And as we'll get to,
there's lots of different places,
lots of different scopes that,
that can exist.
So that's the first question is,
what are we looking for?
What are those things?
Well, we're looking for variables.
We're looking for lexical identifiers.
The other question is,
who's doing the looking?
And that's an even more
important question.
Who's doing the looking?
And this is where we're gonna start to
maybe push your comfort zone a little bit,
right off the bat,
is I'm gonna start to introduce
some compiler terminology to you.
Because the first misconception that
I wanna completely dispel, is that
JavaScript is not, it is stated that
JavaScript is not a compiled language.
The JavaScript is dynamic,
it's an interpretive language, and
that is just a false statement.
So for those of you that have been under
the impression that JavaScript isn't
compiled, that there isn't a compiler
involved, let me just dispel that myth for
you, JavaScript is just
to compile language.
Now, it's not quite the same
as how we compile our C++, or
we compile our Java, or things like that.
There are certainly some differences
in the way we deal with it,
the primary difference is
that we don't distribute,
that is we don't sent out the binary
compiled form of our programs.
Like we did with C++, We compile it into
an EXE and we send it out to people.
Or in Java, we compile it into byte code,
and we sent that out to the Java JVM.
We don't do that with JavaScript.
We send the original source code program.
So, in a sense it is compiled, but
it's compiled every single
time that it's running.
But that doesn't mean
that it's not compiled.
Now, what do I mean by an interpreter?
So the difference between
a compiled language and
an interpreted language is,
let me give you a comparison.
If any of you have ever
done Bash scripting.
Bash is an interpreted language, which
means that when it is running in line
three, it has absolutely, and
no idea what to expect on line four.
It hasn't even looked at line four yet,
it's not there yet.
It's dealing with line three.
So an interpreter literally
goes from top to bottom.
Now there's obviously some
looping mechanisms and
other things that interpreters can do,
through Go To and things like that.
But, interpretive languages go top
to bottom, just line at a time.
In JavaScript however, and
in other compiled languages,
a compiler does an initial pass
through the code to compile that code,
and then it does at least one
more pass through the code, and
then that final pass is when
it's gonna do its execution.
So it has looked at line four,
before it starts to run in line three,
just sort of in general.
So as we start to talk about the compiler,
we have to understand that
the compiler's gonna look for
these blocks of scope, and it said that
JavaScript has functions scope that
blocks that JavaScript has functions.
And I put that asterisk there because
as we get to talking a little bit
later on this section will see
that not always gonna be the case.
But at the moment, in the current standard
version of the language you have,
the smallest atomic unit of scope that
we have in the language is the function.
So here's one of those cases
where I'm gonna put up a slide,
and I'm gonna talk about this slide for
quite a while.
We might be on this slide for
20 or 30 minutes.
And you're looking at that like,
that's crazy,
[LAUGH] this is a small amount of code.
How could we possibly do that?
I need to start introducing some of
that compiler terminology to you,
because you need to understand that the
compiler is gonna look at this code a bit
differently than you have probably
trained yourself to look at this code.
And I think we need to think a little bit
more like the JavaScript engine, and so
we can understand exactly why it does,
what it does, and how it does it.
So the first thing that
I'll illustrate to you,
is that there's a lot of complexity
that I'm gonna gloss and hand wave over.
Compilation is all kinds of things
like tokenizing, and all that stuff.
We're gonna completely hand wave and
gloss over all of that stuff.
But there's one important
part of the compiler phase,
that's really important to our discussion.
And that is finding
declarations of variables and
functions and putting them into
their appropriate scope slots.
That's the pass that
we're gonna think about.
So what we need to do is think about
this code will get passed through,
once by the compiler first.
And then a few microseconds later,
it's gonna get a second pass through.
After it's been compiled,
it's gonna get a second pass
through where it's been executed.
So that's conceptually, how we're
gonna need to think about this code.
The first thing that you'll see there
right on line one, you'll see what
everybody will probably commonly
recognizes a variable declaration.
Var foo, we see the var keyword
it means a variable declaration.
We see an identifier named foo.
We see an initialization of
that variable to some value,
in this case it's an immediate value,
a string value.
Most of you,
I'm willing to bet would think of that
as a single JavaScript statement, and
grammatically speaking, it is true that
that is a single JavaScript statement.
If you go to the spec,
and look at the grammar,
that's a variable declaration
with an initializer.
It's just a single statement,
we see a single semicolon.
However, that's not really how
JavaScript is gonna process it
when it needs to execute this code,
and that's the difference,
that's the nuance that we need to
learn to understand our code better.
You need to understand that rather than
this being thought of as one statement,
this actually should be treated as
two entirely separate operations.
There's a declaration operation which we
could map to saying is the var foo part,
and there is an initialization operation,
which is the foo equals var part.
And those two operations actually
happen at totally separate times.
They might only be a couple
microseconds apart, but
they do happen at the same time.
And in fact,
it's not even the same mechanism within
the engine that's dealing with them.
And that's the key thing we need to
understand, so we need to start to look at
our code with slightly different
eyes than we might be used to.
We might be used to thinking of that
as a single statement, in fact,
we need to think about
it as two statements.
So the compiler is gonna do a single pass,
or the pass that we care about,
is gonna pass through looking for
all of the variable declarations in
all the places that it can find them.
And it's not just the var declarations,
but it's also these function declarations.
Those are also declarations
that we're gonna look through.
So what we're going to do is
we're going to anthropomorphize,
it's a fancy way of saying we're gonna
treat it as a human being that we can
have a conversation with.
The JavaScript engine and the various
parts of the JavaScript engine,
and I'm gonna teach you a slightly
formal way of talking to that engine.
It's gonna feel weird why I keep
telling you to say it this way, but
you're gonna get some practice
over this in the next slide, and
it'll feel a little bit more
natural over the next few minutes.
[COUGH] When we look at these
declarations, and we say, okay,
the JavaScript compiler is gonna
go through, and find declarations.
So the first line,
the compiler is gonna come through and
say, I see a variable declaration for
an identifier called foo.
Which current scope am I in?
And the answer to that question is,
you're in the global scope right now,
as we see it in this code.
Okay, I wanna register the foo
identifier into my current
scope which happens to
be the global scope.
Now, I move on.
I completely ignored this thing, cuz
that's not something I need to deal with.
I move on, where's my next declaration?
Okay, my next declaration
is on line three,
I see a function declaration
with an identifier named bar.
Now, as differentiated from line one where
we didn't care about the assignment of
the value, here we are actually
gonna care about the value.
We're gonna care that it is actually
a function that goes along with this
declaration.
Those really aren't kind of separated,
they're treated as one sort of operation,
at least in our concept here.
So we're gonna register the function
bar into the same scope,
we're currently in that scope of bar.
Now, it's at this point that we need to
talk about a nuance of the way JavaScript
works because we're talking conceptually
about JavaScript compilation,
in the most basic and naive of terms.
If you were to write just,
if you were a computer science type,
computer science student, and
you were told to sort of write
a compiler for the JavaScript language.
I took a compilers' class,
a compiler theory class,
I got to do something like that.
If you were told to write a compiler,
you would just sort of do
this top down approach.
You just sort of skim through the code,
and when you recognize the declaration you
register to whichever
particular scope you're in.
The JavaScript compilers of today
are fantastically more complex,
than that naive computer science
student implementation would be.
So if you've ever heard
of things like JITS,
J- I-T, that stands for
just-in-time compilation.
The idea behind just-in-time compilation
would say, this function bar, here,
we don't see it being called.
So rather than compiling
the contents of the function bar,
we'll just skip over it, and
we'll come back to it later.
We'll compile the function bar
whenever we are forced to,
because it's been asked to be executed.
So we'll defer the compilation,
and we'll compile it just in time.
Even more complex than that, is that many
of these engines are doing kind of started
in the Firefox world, where they were
tracing the performance of these things.
But there this idea that you can hot
swap the compilation of a function.
So when they compile a function in
JavaScript because of all the differences
in the way that types are not
enforced as strongly and
as statically as they
are in other languages.
In a sense the compiler has
to kind of make a best guess,
as to how you're gonna use the function.
It can kinda do some inferences about
types and other fancy things like that,
but it has to make essentially a guess,
as to how you're doing it.
As opposed to the C++ compiler, it knows
exactly how that function's going to work.
It knows all the inputs all the outputs,
all the types and everything.
So, oops, sorry I skipped back.
The C++ compiler has to do,
it has enough time to get it right
the first time, if you will.
But the JavaScript engine,
it doesn't have enough time, and
it doesn't have enough information,
so it has to make a best guess.
And so,
many of the engines will make a guess, but
they'll instrument that initial guess,
and they'll let the function run
maybe say a couple dozen times,
or something like that.
Then monitor how well the guess was.
Did we guess correctly?
Is it being used,
in the way that we think it is?
If the guess was incorrect, if it turns
out they didn't do a very good job of
guessing, they'll throw
away the compilation, and
then recompile the function and
the hot swap and those bits directly.
So there's all kinds of, and there's way
more even I am totally glossing over
a bunch of There is way
more to it than that.
We are gonna be the naive
top down compiler.
So even though the real ones
might not compile bar now,
we're gonna compile bar right now.
And just as if we're being in
a naive top down compiler.